Improving the Social Movement Research via Human Computation Project
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Hyunku Kwon
-----------

### Related Articles:

**Jung, W., King, B. G., & Soule, S. A. (2014). Issue bricolage:
Explaining the configuration of the social movement sector, 1960–1995.
American Journal of Sociology, 120(1), 187-225.**

**Ghaziani, A., & Baldassarri, D. (2011). Cultural anchors and the
organization of differences: a multi-method analysis of LGBT marches on
Washington. American Sociological Review, 76(2), 179-206.**

While social movement scholarship has focused on the “structural”
properties (e.g. social networks, political opportunity structure, and
organizations) of social movement, recent scholars began to examine its
“ideational” properties: how social movement groups’ issue agendas are
related with each other. Such research project requires dataset which
contains information about the issue agendas of social movement
organizations and protest events. For example, to understand whether
Occupy Wallstreet and LGBT movement are ideationally linked with each
other, we should see whether (1) the two organizations collaborated with
each other (coalition building), or (2) protesters in each organization
or protest piggyback each other’s agenda without explicit collaboration
(frame bridging).

To understand such ideational and relational dynamics, scholars have
turned to newspapers. For example, Jung et al (2014) reads every page of
all daily issue of New York Times, and search for any mention of protest
events; Ghaziani and Baldassarri (2011) looks at 11 local and national,
mainstream and gay presses (e.g. Advocate, Bay Area Reporter, Gay
Community News) to elicit the issue agendas of LGBT protests and
organizations.

There is an empirical limit inherent in this line of social movement
research: there are too many social movement organizations and protest
events. For example, The Dynamics of Collective Action dataset, which
examines protest events from 1965 to 1990, has more than 23,000 distinct
protest events. Considering the fact that this dataset only takes into
account protest events that featured in New York Times, such research
project would potentially require substantive amount of work.

Even though the making of such dataset is a very laborious, and thus
requires a lot of researchers, the job itself is pretty simple: all that
should be done is to classify each social movement organization or
protest event into a certain set of issue agendas. It doesn’t require
sophisticated and trained research’s work; nor is it very subjective:
explicit issue positions or implicit cultural repertoires of the
protests or organizations are not hard to identify, for Social movement
groups and protests try hard to make their message very clear.

Seen in this light, Human Computation Project would be extremely helpful
here. Classifying, coding and labeling the issue agenda of social
movement organizations and protests is an easy-task-big-scale problem;
such problem might be efficiently solved by employing
“split-apply-combine strategy which break a big problem into lots of
simple micro-tasks that can be solved by people without specialized
skills” (Salganik 2017). To illustrate, we can gather Newspaper articles
that contain certain key words pertaining to the social movement, such
as protest or social movement. Then, we split them into pieces, and
distribute them to volunteers. Volunteers are required to identify and
classify the ideational properties of the social movements—the issue
agenda(s) of the protest. Finally, results are combined to produce a
consensus result.

Drawing on Human Computation Project, we may improve the research
project in several ways. First, while social movement scholars have
turned heavily to New York Times dataset to investigate the ideational
properties of protest, we can have a broader, more general
representation of social movement dynamics, by making use of
split-apply-combine strategy. This is made possible by dealing with
various newspapers, both local and national, and both mainstream and
niche.

Second, once we find the systematic discrepancy between the
classification of professional social scientists and that of mass
public, we can elicit how mass public perceives social movement
dynamics. Since protests aim at influencing and interacting with mass
public, how public understands social movements is a very important
question. With Human Computation Project, scholars may improve the
bottom-up process of social movement: how mass public understands social
movements, and how such understanding systematically differs from
elites' and scientists' perspective. Such discrepancy itself would be a
valuable resource for research.
